---
layout: post
title: 3 things to Keep in Mind as you grow in your faith
category: Bible Study
featuredImage: img/pexels-magda-ehlers-1329291-1024x682.jpg
summary: "Being a Christian isn't always easy, but we've got to remember to stay
  bold and preach the good news to the world. Romans 1:16 -> For I am not
  ashamed of the gospel because it is the power of God that brings salvation to
  everyone who believes: first to the Jew, then to the Gentile."
date: May 23, 2020
author: Cyntia Seumo
---
<h2 class="has-black-color has-text-color">1. Have a fear of God not man</h2>

<p>Sometimes as Christian's if we're not careful, we can easily get into the habit of always wanting to be tolerable to non-believers. While we should do all things in love, we shouldn't have to compromise who we are and what we believe in. Just because someone is accusing you of being boring, uptight, judgmental, etc. doesn't change the truth of what God has called you: a chosen people, a royal priesthood, and a holy nation (<span class="tooltips">1 Peter 2:9<span class="tooltip-text">But you are not like that, for you are a chosen people. You are royal priests, a holy nation, God’s very own possession. As a result, you can show others the goodness of God, for he called you out of the darkness into his wonderful light. </span></span>). While in the face of persecution it can be easy to want to take the path of least resistance, but that's not the mindset we should have. We should be bold and follow the examples of Joshua and Caleb (<span class="tooltips">Numbers 14:6-9<span class="tooltip-text">Two of the men who had explored the land, Joshua son of Nun and Caleb son of Jephunneh, tore their clothing. They said to all the people of Israel, “The land we traveled through and explored is a wonderful land! And if the Lord is pleased with us, he will bring us safely into that land and give it to us. It is a rich land flowing with milk and honey. Do not rebel against the Lord, and don’t be afraid of the people of the land. They are only helpless prey to us! They have no protection, but the Lord is with us! Don’t be afraid of them!” </span></span>), Daniel and his buddies (<span class="tooltips">Daniel 3:17-18<span class="tooltip-text">If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God whom we serve is able to save us. He will rescue us from your power, Your Majesty. But even if he doesn’t, we want to make it clear to you, Your Majesty, that we will never serve your gods or worship the gold statue you have set up.”</span></span>, <span class="tooltips">6:13<span class="tooltip-text">Then they told the king, “That man Daniel, one of the captives from Judah, is ignoring you and your law. He still prays to his God three times a day.”</span></span>), Peter (<span class="tooltips">Acts 5:28-29<span class="tooltip-text">We gave you strict orders never again to teach in this man’s name!” he said. “Instead, you have filled all Jerusalem with your teaching about him, and you want to make us responsible for his death!” But Peter and the apostles replied, “We must obey God rather than any human authority.</span></span>) and countless others in the Bible. We are called to do God's will, not man's will. So be prepared for persecution.</p>

<h2 class="has-black-color has-text-color">2. It's all about Jesus and his kingdom</h2>

<p>We shouldn't be too prideful, or selfish but should humble ourselves in all things. When boasting, boast in God who provides us with all things needed to live a godly life in Christ (<span class="tooltips">2 Peter 1:3<span class="tooltip-text">By his divine power, God has given us everything we need for living a godly life. We have received all of this by coming to know him, the one who called us to himself by means of his marvelous glory and excellence. </span></span>). Our salvation was a gift, and not earned (<span class="tooltips">Ephesians 2:8-10<span class="tooltip-text">God saved you by his grace when you believed. And you can’t take credit for this; it is a gift from God. Salvation is not a reward for the good things we have done, so none of us can boast about it. For we are God’s masterpiece. He has created us anew in Christ Jesus, so we can do the good things he planned for us long ago.</span></span>). Everything we do as Christians is to further the kingdom of God. As Matthew 6:33 states, Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added onto you. This isn't to say that we can't take care of ourselves, or want things like cars, houses, marriage, money, etc. All that is fine, as long as we're not consumed by all these things to the point where God becomes our genie. Our purpose is to serve God, not for God to serve us. And the beautiful thing about God is that if we serve Him, he will take care of us.</p>

<h2 class="has-black-color has-text-color">3. It's the why that matters not the what</h2>

<p>Jesus cares more for the state of our heart than the actions that we do. If we are following his commandments for self-righteous reasons and not out of love for him, then it doesn't mean much (<span class="tooltips">1 Samuel 16:7<span class="tooltip-text">But the Lord said to Samuel, “Don’t judge by his appearance or height, for I have rejected him. The Lord doesn’t see things the way you see them. People judge by outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart.”</span></span>). Empty religious actions pale in comparison to a heart seeking after God (<span class="tooltips">Matthew 9:13<span class="tooltip-text">Then he added, “Now go and learn the meaning of this Scripture: ‘I want you to show mercy, not offer sacrifices.’ For I have come to call not those who think they are righteous, but those who know they are sinners</span></span>). In everything that we do, we should seek God whole heartily and when we do, we will find him for he draws near to those who seek him (<span class="tooltips">Psalm 34:17-18<span class="tooltip-text">The Lord hears his people when they call to him for help. He rescues them from all their troubles. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted; he rescues those whose spirits are crushed</span></span>, <span class="tooltips">Matthew 7:7-8<span class="tooltip-text"> Keep on asking, and you will receive what you ask for. Keep on seeking, and you will find. Keep on knocking, and the door will be opened to you. For everyone who asks, receives. Everyone who seeks, finds. And to everyone who knocks, the door will be opened.</span></span>). Keep your prayer life active, and cultivate a relationship with Him. Once you have that relationship, all the do's and don'ts won't seem like such a burden (<span class="tooltips">Matthew 11:28-29<span class="tooltip-text">“Come to Me, all who are weary and heavily burdened [by religious rituals that provide no peace], and I will give you rest [refreshing your souls with salvation]. Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me [following Me as My disciple], for I am gentle and humble in heart, and YOU WILL FIND REST (renewal, blessed quiet) FOR YOUR SOULS. (AMP)</span></span>).</p>

<p>Work at your faith, and you will be amazed at the things God will reveal to you about who He is.</p>