---
layout: post
title: I want you to know
category: Salvation
featured image: img/pexels-ylanite-koppens-810036-1024x682.jpg
featuredImage: img/pexels-ylanite-koppens-810036-1024x682.jpg
summary: I want you to know that Jesus loves you. I'm not talking about a
  superficial love either.
date: January 10, 2020
---
That Jesus loves you. I'm not talking about a superficial love either. While you were yet in your mother's womb, the Lord knew you and loved you (Jeremiah 1:5 “I knew you before I formed you in your mother’s womb. Before you were born I set you apart and appointed you as my prophet to the nations.” (NLT)). He's counted the hairs on your head (Luke 12:7 And the very hairs on your head are all numbered. So don’t be afraid; you are more valuable to God than a whole flock of sparrows. (NLT)), and he has great plans for you. Plans to prosper you, and give you a hope and a future (Jeremiah 29:11 For I know the plans I have for you,” says the LORD. “They are plans for good and not for disaster, to give you a future and a hope. (NLT)). If you didn't know this, then I want you to know this. I want you to take it in. I want you to understand this.

Before you could do anything to prove yourself (Romans 5:8" But God showed his great love for us by sending Christ to die for us while we were still sinners. (NLT)), God said you were enough. He showed this by sending his son, in human flesh, who did nothing wrong, to be sin for you and make you righteous (2 Corinth 5:21" For God made Christ, who never sinned, to be the offering for our sin, so that we could be made right with God through Christ. (NLT)). He gave you an advocate who will stand for you when you mess up (1 John 2:1 My dear children, I am writing this to you so that you will not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate who pleads our case before the Father. He is Jesus Christ, the one who is truly righteous. (NLT)), and a comforter to walk with you and guide you in every situation so you may have peace (John 14:26-27 But when the Father sends the Advocate as my representative—that is, the Holy Spirit—he will teach you everything and will remind you of everything I have told you. “I am leaving you with a gift—peace of mind and heart. And the peace I give is a gift the world cannot give. So don’t be troubled or afraid. (NLT)).

All he asks in return is that you acknowledge Him and confess that He is your Lord and savior (Romans 10:9If you openly declare that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. (NLT)). Because His mercy is what saves you and all you need to complete it is faith (Ephesians 2:8-9God saved you by his grace when you believed. And you can’t take credit for this; it is a gift from God. Salvation is not a reward for the good things we have done, so none of us can boast about it. (NLT)). And once you understand that God's love is already the highest it can be and can't be lessened or increased by what you do, then you will be set free (Ephesians 3:18-19 And may you have the power to understand, as all God’s people should, how wide, how long, how high, and how deep his love is. *19*May you experience the love of Christ, though it is too great to understand fully. Then you will be made complete with all the fullness of life and power that comes from God. (NLT)).

Once you realize this, I hope you'll be willing to give your life back to God, the creator of all the heavens and the earth (Isaiah 40:28-31 Have you never heard? Have you never understood? The LORD is the everlasting God, the Creator of all the earth. He never grows weak or weary. No one can measure the depths of his understanding. He gives power to the weak and strength to the powerless. Even youths will become weak and tired, and young men will fall in exhaustion. But those who trust in the LORD will find new strength. They will soar high on wings like eagles. They will run and not grow weary. They will walk and not faint. (NLT)).

> If you openly declare that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
> <cite>[Romans 10:9 NLT ](https://www.bible.com/bible/116/rom.10.9)
