---
layout: post
title: Jesus’ Commandments
category: Bible Study
featuredImage: img/pexels-cqfavocat-613508-1024x683.jpg
summary: Many people think that Jesus' commands are the 10 commandments. Lets
  take a deeper look at what the Bible says.
date: July 25, 2020
author: Cyntia Seumo
---

<p>Those who follow the commands of Jesus have access to many promises. Many people think that these commands are the 10 commandments. While they aren’t completely off the mark, they have still missed the mark. Jesus commanded us to love our neighbor, stating that it’s equally as important as worshiping only God (<span class="tooltips">Mark 12:29-31<span class="tooltip-text">Jesus replied, “The most important commandment is this: ‘Listen, O Israel! The Lord our God is the one and only Lord. And you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, and all your strength.’ The second is equally important: ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’ No other commandment is greater than these.”</span></span>, <span class="tooltips">Matthew 22:37-40<span class="tooltip-text">Jesus replied, “‘You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind.’ This is the first and greatest commandment. A second is equally important: ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’ The entire law and all the demands of the prophets are based on these two commandments.” </span></span>).</p>

<p>In John 15 verse 12 Jesus says, “This is my commandment: Love each other in the same way I have loved you”. Then not much later he says again in verse 17 “This is my command: Love each other”. He tells us this so that we would know what he means when he tells us in <span class="tooltips">verse 10<span class="tooltip-text">When you obey my commandments, you remain in my love, just as I obey my Father’s commandments and remain in his love.</span></span> “When you obey my commandments, you remain in my love…”.</p>

<p>You may be wondering, what about the 10 commandments? God gave the law to Moses for the Israelis to follow in the Old Testament. It was given as a standard for righteousness and also to show people just how hard it is to be sinless by their own effort. It exemplifies why we need a savior. Jesus overcame the law when he died on the cross (<span class="tooltips">Romans 10:3-4<span class="tooltip-text"> For they don’t understand God’s way of making people right with himself. Refusing to accept God’s way, they cling to their own way of getting right with God by trying to keep the law. <strong>For Christ has already accomplished the purpose for which the law was given</strong>. As a result, all who believe in him are made right with God.</span></span>). Paul also reiterates <span class="tooltips">Matthew 22:40<span class="tooltip-text">The entire law and all the demands of the prophets are based on these two commandments. </span></span> in Galatians 5 verse 14 saying “For the whole law can be summed up in this one command: “Love your neighbor as yourself”.</p>

<p>John points out in <span class="tooltips">1 John 2:7<span class="tooltip-text">Dear friends, I am not writing a new commandment for you; rather it is an old one you have had from the very beginning. This old commandment—to love one another—is the same message you heard before.</span></span> that this command is not new! It may seem new, but it really isn't. It is just been rephrased. <span class="tooltips">Verse 9 of 1 John 2<span class="tooltip-text">If anyone claims, “I am living in the light,” but hates a fellow believer, that person is still living in darkness.</span></span> also states that if you claim to love God and hate your neighborhood, then you are living in darkness. He says this after telling us <span class="tooltips">verse 5<span class="tooltip-text">his is the message we heard from Jesus and now declare to you: God is light, and there is no darkness in him at all.</span></span> of the previous chapter, that God is light, and there is no darkness in him at all! If you're living in darkness, then God has no part in you! So always strive to live in the light! Remember, “Three things will last forever—faith, hope, and love—and the greatest of these is love” (<span class="tooltips">1 Corinthians 13<span class="tooltip-text">Three things will last forever—faith, hope, and love—and the greatest of these is love</span></span>).</p>
