---
layout: post
title: There is always something to pray about
category: Bible Study
featuredImage: img/pexels-suzy-hazelwood-1226398-1024x576.jpg
summary: Saying "I won't pray today because I don't know what to pray about" is
  no longer acceptable. Lack of a reason to pray is not a reason to not pray...
date: November 21, 2020
author: Cyntia Seumo
---
<blockquote><p>One day Jesus told his disciples a story to show that they should always pray and never give up.</p>
<cite>Luke 18:1</cite></blockquote>
One thing I struggle with sometimes is figuring out what to pray about. It can be hard to be disciplined in my prayer life. I used to think that I only needed to pray when I had something to ask of God. The Holy Spirit has shown me this mindset is quite flawed because there are so many things to pray about! Here are a few things to consider that can help to improve your prayer life.
<h3>1. Intercession</h3>
Putting our selfish desires aside, we can come to God to stand in the gap and intercede for the unsaved. These people could be family, friends, coworkers, or strangers. Intercession is when you pray on behalf of someone else.
Paul urged Timothy to pray for the unsaved and leaders in <span class="tooltips">1 Timothy 2:1-2<span class="tooltip-text">I urge you, first of all, to pray for all people. Ask God to help them; intercede on their behalf, and give thanks for them. Pray this way for kings and all who are in authority so that we can live peaceful and quiet lives marked by godliness and dignity</span></span>. God wants all who belong to him to come to him, and sometimes he needs someone to stand in the gap for their sake (<span class="tooltips">Ezekiel 22:30<span class="tooltip-text">I looked for someone who might rebuild the wall of righteousness that guards the land. I searched for someone to stand in the gap in the wall so I wouldn’t have to destroy the land, but I found no one.</span></span>). Paul also asks for intercessory prayer in <span class="tooltips">2 Thessalonians 3:1<span class="tooltip-text">Finally, dear brothers and sisters, we ask you to pray for us. Pray that the Lord’s message will spread rapidly and be honored wherever it goes, just as when it came to you..</span></span>
You will also find many places in the Epistles where either Paul is asking for intercessory prayer or is interceding for others in the church. Thus, we should also pray for our pastor(s), church, and fellow brethren in the Lord (<span class="tooltips">1 Thessalonians 5:25<span class="tooltip-text">Dear brothers and sisters, pray for us.</span></span>, <span class="tooltips">Ephesians 6:18<span class="tooltip-text">Pray in the Spirit at all times and on every occasion. Stay alert and be persistent in your prayers for all believers everywhere.</span></span>, <span class="tooltips">Colossians 4:13<span class="tooltip-text">I can assure you that he prays hard for you and also for the believers in Laodicea and Hierapolis.</span></span>). Don't forget to pray for your enemies as well (<span class="tooltips">Matthew 5:44<span class="tooltip-text">But I say, love your enemies! Pray for those who persecute you!</span></span>, <span class="tooltips">Romans 12:14<span class="tooltip-text">Bless those who persecute you. Don’t curse them; pray that God will bless them.</span></span>).
<h3>2. World problems</h3>
There are many evils constantly taking place in the world that could use prayer. If you need some examples, look at the news; you will get plenty. Pray for things to improve.
Whether it's scandals, rape, racism, kidnapping, sex trafficking, the state of the country, or anything else, be the person to pray about it! Be the person to start noticing and bringing it to God. Then listen and watch as things begin to change around you. Watch your community improve. Who knows, maybe God can give you an idea of how you can get involved and help with the situation you are praying about.
<h3>3. Fellowship</h3>
Another option is seeking fellowship and intimacy with God. This prayer is not about asking God for anything other than his presence. The goal is to spend time with God, to seek His face, and to know his will.
When you fellowship with the Holy Spirit, you will find yourself feeling refreshed, strengthed, and comforted. You'll gain a deeper understanding of who your God is and what His plans are for you and the world. You will also gain a better understanding of who you are because you'll see Whose you are. To me, this is one of the most powerful reasons to pray.

These are things that I've learned I can always pray about. So saying "I won't pray today because I don't know what to pray about" is no longer acceptable. Lack of a reason to pray is not a reason to not pray.
If I pray regardless of these feelings, the Holy Spirit will bring fort things to pray about. This is why it's important to learn how to pray in the Spirit (<span class="tooltips">Romans 8:26<span class="tooltip-text">And the Holy Spirit helps us in our weakness. For example, we don’t know what God wants us to pray for. But the Holy Spirit prays for us with groanings that cannot be expressed in words.</span></span>, <span class="tooltips">1 Corinthians 14:15<span class="tooltip-text">Well then, what shall I do? I will pray in the spirit,14:15 Or in the Spirit; also in 14:15b, 16. and I will also pray in words I understand. I will sing in the spirit, and I will also sing in words I understand.</span></span>).