---
layout: post
title: What is Christianity
category: Salvation
featuredImage: img/pexels-pixabay-356079-1024x619.jpg
summary: Being a Christian is more than just going to church. It's a lifestyle,
  understanding, and spiritual renewal and development. Don't understand what I
  mean? Continue reading for more details.
date: November 28, 2020
author: Cyntia Seumo
---
Being a Christian is more than just going to church. It's a lifestyle, understanding, and spiritual renewal and development. Don't understand what I mean? Continue reading for more details.
<h3>1. Lifestyle</h3>
Being a Christian is a lifestyle. It's not something that you leave at church or the doorstep when you go out. It's something you do every day. The same way you wake up, breathe, and move is the same way you are a Christian. Everything you do should glorify Christ (<span class="tooltips">1 Corinthians 10:31<span class="tooltip-text">So whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do it all for the glory of God.</span></span>). The words you speak should reflect your heavenly father (<span class="tooltips">2 Timothy 2:16<span class="tooltip-text">Avoid worthless, foolish talk that only leads to more godless behavior.</span></span>). The decisions you make should have Christ and his kingdom in mind. The Holy Spirit should be more than just an experience, but also a counsel.
<h3>2. Understanding</h3>
Being a Christian is an understanding (<span class="tooltips">Ephesians 1:18-19<span class="tooltip-text">I pray that your hearts will be flooded with light so that you can understand the confident hope he has given to those he called—his holy people who are his rich and glorious inheritance. I also pray that you will understand the incredible greatness of God’s power for us who believe him. This is the same mighty power</span></span>). You should know that Christ is who the Bible says He is. You should understand that He is the God of the living and not of the dead (<span class="tooltips">Matthew 22:32<span class="tooltip-text">I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.’ So he is the God of the living, not the dead.”</span></span>). As you build your understanding of Christ, you build your understanding of who you are. When you understand that nothing is impossible to God and that he that is in you is greater than he that is in the world, the way you go about things changes. Faith is a stepping stone to understanding. If you have faith, then you are on your way to building your understanding.
<h3>3. Spiritual renewal and development</h3>
Being a Christian is a renewal and development of your spirit. When you got born again, a new spirit was given to you (<span class="tooltips">2 Corinthians 5:17<span class="tooltip-text">This means that anyone who belongs to Christ has become a new person. The old life is gone; a new life has begun!</span></span>, <span class="tooltips">Ezekiel 36:26<span class="tooltip-text">And I will give you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit in you. I will take out your stony, stubborn heart and give you a tender, responsive heart.</span></span>). This new spirit will now need to be developed. Spiritual development comes through reading the Bible and knowing the character of God. It also comes through meditation and spending time in prayer with the Holy Spirit. Putting your faith into practice is how you show spiritual growth which causes things to change in your life (<span class="tooltips">James 1:22-25<span class="tooltip-text">But don’t just listen to God’s word. You must do what it says. Otherwise, you are only fooling yourselves. For if you listen to the word and don’t obey, it is like glancing at your face in a mirror. You see yourself, walk away, and forget what you look like. But if you look carefully into the perfect law that sets you free, and if you do what it says and don’t forget what you heard, then God will bless you for doing it.</span></span>).

Do not take what you have been given for granted. Your life should change once you are born again. It could change slowly or suddenly, but either way, there will be a change. Yield to the Holy Spirit because He now dwells in you. You are the temple of God so keep your temple holy (<span class="tooltips">1 Corinthians 3:16<span class="tooltip-text">Don’t you realize that all of you together are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God lives in you?</span></span>). Know also that you still have free will, so choose to do godly things and not worldly things.